In this video I'm going to present how could I trust note in C++ as a subscriber to a laser scanner
in the previous video.
We have written a note using Python and in this video we're going to write it in C++.
You will see C++.
Things are a little bit more complicated because we don't have the utilities that person provide to
easily calculate just the sticks from an array like the minimum value with a maximum value and the average
value.
So let's see how it works.
Remember the python program we have already predefined functions that allow us to calculate the minimum
value inside and the rate the maximum value also the sum of all the values in an array.
That is a plus plus we don't have this utilities for that reason I have created some 5s.
So what were first five is called utility.
It's just a library that they have created which performs a few computations like for example it converts
radio to a degree degree radiant and then the distance between two different poses so these are some
functionalities that you may need or we may want to use whenever we work with laser scanner and also
most importantly this is another library where we have a community class that is called laser scanner
and it contains a static methods.
For example there is a static method that allows to find the average age in the laser scanner between
two indices start index and and index some method that allows to find the maximum range the minimum
range.
Also the front range the front range its in the middle of the field of view usually at the angle zero
in the middle.
So these are different functions that they have created and they have implemented in order to calculate
some statistics for the scan messages that we will receive.
Another function is called also is obstacle to close that it takes Elisa's kind of a message and start
index an index to specify an interval of values and also a distance 3 shot.
So it is going to return to the maximum distance inside this interval is smaller than a distance three
short the five laser scanner the TPP contains the implementations of these different methods for example
to calculate the average age.
We go from the start index and the index and we calculate the sum of all the values.
And finally we divide by the total number of bodies.
Of course here we have to exclude all the values that are not so we use SDD is none.
If it is not none we're going to calculate the average for the dividing some other functions also loves
you to give you the index finger and index to anger.
So if you get an index inside this array is going to give you what is the relative and ok on target.
We have the angles between angle and angle Max and every measurement response to an angle and also a
response to an index inside.
So if I know the index I can determine what is the angle and if I have the angle I can also determine
what is the index.
So these are just some computations that we do in order to find the index from the angle and the angle
from the index and all the other utilities for example to calculate the average range in the right side
on the left side or even straight direction.
Getting the minimum range.
So we're going to have initialize a mean index and every time we find a minimum value we're going to
update the index and finally return the minimum value in the index.
So you can look at the implementation of laser scanner TPD And don't forget that all the methods here
are static so you don't need to create an object.
You can't just call all of them by the name of the class.
These two libraries are located in the laser scan for the inside topic perception's to leyser.
For now let's look at scan subscriber TPP which has the same structure of the Python code.
So if you have the main function we initialize the node we give it a name so the name node will be scanned
subscriber CPB.
And here we can either not handle and that we will create the subscriber to the topic and then redefine
the callback function that is called scan callback so it can callback is going to take laser scanner
message again.
And then this is the header definition of the callback function.
And this is its implementation is similar to subscriber.
In the mean value the maximum value the average value is the pipe Emberton and even the C++ version
will print the minimum.
So how to bring the medium range.
We use the static method laser scanner.
Get minimum range and you put the scanned message received.
Same thing that get the maximum range.
Same thing to get the average age average age is going to be computed between the starting TX 0 and
600 and also here.
This is a testing of the method is obstacle to knows which takes a scan message.
Start index and index and the distance.
So every distance that is smaller than zero point sixty nine is going to light.
The obstacle is too close.
Of course you can change the value of the threshold depending on the requirements of your application.
Something very important to note here.
In order to use a laser scanner get minimum range and different methods that were defined in this file.
So it is important to import the laser scanner that H had a file which is located in the laser scanner
folder so we have to include the library and also this library.
It includes the utility library that they have presented first that contains a few methods by converting
Radio 2 degrees to get ready and so.
So you can see here that laser scanner includes utility and scan subscriber that GDP it includes laser
scanner slash laser scanner that H of course and C++ is not like in Python.
This inclusions has to be reflected in the list.
So what we should know before being able to compile.
We need to add these libraries into the mix.
So first of all we need to use our library instruction.
OK so we specify the library names that you want to produce ongoing just a coded utility library and
then we provide the source file of the utility library that you want to add to this you make list to
the build system.
It is located in SIAC topic for such into lasers flash lasers control the market is what I have with
the library and then utility the GDP will do the same thing for the laser scanner.
Some way to create a library called laser scanner leap and then I have to specify what is the source
file for this library.
And since laser scanner only includes utility in this case we have to add an instruction target link
libraries laser scanner Lepe utility.
So this means that utility is included in the laser scanner.
This will tell the system that the laser scanner really is using the library utility.
And here these are two instructions that you have to do to add laser kind of leap into the catkin libraries
and also adding as a dependency to get exported targets.
So these are the two libraries that we need to add in our system.
And of course we need to add an executable for the scan subscriber as we did for other nodes so we need
to add executable like we did for the other nodes and services.
I'm going to call it scan's subscribers see the peak and this is the source of this concept of TPP.
OK which is going to be used to create the executable and then we need to add all Khakee libraries to
scan subscribers CTP.
And also since scuzz subscriber includes laser scanner so we need also to add target link libraries
scans subscriber CTP laser scanner.
This is because of the include statement that we have scanned subscriber or the laser scanner that H.
These are the changes that we have to do in this email list.
Whenever you include your custom libraries into your post notes so to summarize most of what we needed
to add the library utility DB which contains some basic functionality is to convert from reputed a great
degree to the ages and then we need also to add the latest leap and also to link between laser's cannot
live and utility because laser scanner includes utility.
And finally when we create the executable we need also to target link libraries between scans subscriber
and also laser scanner.
So now we can try to crack this code.
First of all I'm going to unload the car and then I will go to the back find that you have created last
time and I'm going just to play it.
So let me have some scanning topics.
And this is the benefit of having backslides so I don't need every time to connect again with a laser
scanner and start the port and so on.
So just for testing and debugging I can use the back files and replay to get I'm going to use.
Probably played.
It is playing
of course I'm going to go to get clean and compile again after making all the changes we need to compile
everything again.
OK so I have really come by that and then making a strong cross essentially CTP and then the subscriber
underskirt CVP this is the you that we have created.
And you can see now we are getting the minimum age.
This is the maximum we look at it.
You change it
to the maximum range.
So after doing that I need to combine a good
case so it has created.
Again I see no I'm going to play again the back five.
And then we can get on our program again so we can see you know it's giving the minimum wage the maximum
range the average range.
And also when it is slower than 0.16 time like in this case it's just the return obstacle.
Too close.
This is the condition that you have set in our program to detect whether an obstacle is too close or
not.
OK so to summarize in this lecture I have presented out a process images in C++ using Krasnow in C++.
And for this I had to create a new library that is called laser scanner that contains different methods
that allow to process the laser scan the message because in C++ there is no ready to use methods that
allows to process arrays easily like this in python.
Now we have everything in hand in order to use the laser scanner to develop a robotic application that
allows to control the motion of the robot using the information coming from the laser scanner.
For example a very simple project will be to make a robot move until the minimum distance to an obstacle
is lower than a certain threshold.
In this case we stop the robot for safety purposes.
This is one of the many many applications that we can use laser scanner in order to control the motion
of the robot.